---
layout: post
title: "Critical Decisions"
date: 2016-12-17
excerpt: "The future is uncertain, and the game cruel, but you can find solace in the fact that your decisions will make a difference. Better make them positive."
tags: [post 1, decisions ,blog, life, introspection]
comments: true
---
## Critical Decisions, Post_1, 17th December, 11:30 pm

It has truly been said, that the only constant in life is change. Life is not a simple prose but a complex composition. Just like an elaborate and twisting plot, each and every stage in life presents us with a different predicament, an unsolvable dilemma. These junctures, where we make critical decisions, shape our future in a big way, whether we like it or not. It is in this context, that our life becomes nothing, but a complex web of decisions. It is the decisions we take through all our stages of life, right from our childhood to our old age, that define our life as a whole. These perplexing situations often come at critical junctures in our life, at a period of transition, from childhood to adolescence, from teenage to adulthood etc.

These junctures, though may seem highly enervating and stressful, are hard to come by and thus can be very rewarding in our lives. This is because it is at these junctures, that we have maximum power to shape our life and have absolute control over the outcomes of our very own decisions. We do have the potential to change and shape our lives according to the way we want and the decisions we take are the agents of that change. However, deciding what to eat for breakfast might little impact compared to deciding whether to pursue masters after graduating or not, or whether to settle abroad or not. Thus different situations have different “decision making potential” and hence different “life shaping potential”. This is where these critical junctures of transition play their key role by providing us with an opportunity to make a big difference in our life.

When we come across these junctures, we might be under immense stress and making a decision might seem like a futile effort. We might feel like giving up on life and let nature decide our course. However, we must not forget that by placing us in this precarious situation, nature itself has decided to hand over its reigns to us, so that we can have an active say on our journey in life. Life is not only about having great experiences, but also deciding which experiences we really want to have. Thus it is important, that we do not let go of such situations, but rather, capitalize upon these situations and use them to our advantage. It is essential to remain calm, and think through the repercussions of our decisions, to analyse our expectations from life, and to positively imagine what we really want our life to be. 

No one knows us better than ourselves. We should always perform self-introspection and keep a toll of our strengths and weaknesses. This makes us our own best friend, but also our own worst enemy. It is important to keep a tab of how we can convert these weaknesses into strengths and the threats we face, into opportunities. Knowing ourselves better will provide us with better insights when making these crucial decisions at the critical junctures of life. 

It is true, that the future will always remain shrouded in a cloud of mist and uncertainty, but we can find solace in the fact that some things ARE under our control, and that Mother Nature will eventually let us play a few moves in her elaborate game of dice. Although these moves may be few and random, they WILL make a huge difference in where we reach and see ourselves in the future to come. 

Hence, always keep a positive self-image of yourself, develop a sense of where you want to be, and keep a tab of your strengths and weaknesses. Most importantly, work to improve upon and remove those weak links. 

>After all, to maximize your chances of having a happy ending in this cruel composition of life, you need every possible advantage you can get. 

-Jonti Talukdar 
